---

## [约定优于配置（convention over configuration）][1]

约定优于配置（convention over configuration），也称作按约定编程，是一种软件设计范式，旨在减少软件开发人员需做决定的数量，获得简单的好处，而又不失灵活性。
本质是说，开发人员仅需规定应用中不符约定的部分。例如，如果模型中有个名为Sale的类，那么数据库中对应的表就会默认命名为sales。只有在偏离这一约定时，例如将该表命名为"products_sold"，才需写有关这个名字的配置。
如果您所用工具的约定与你的期待相符，便可省去配置；反之，你可以配置来达到你所期待的方式。

[1]: http://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E7%BA%A6%E5%AE%9A%E4%BC%98%E4%BA%8E%E9%85%8D%E7%BD%AE

---

## AOF(append only file)
网上搜索了一下AOF。AOF(append only file) 是 Redis 提供的一种持久化机制。

---

## [AOP(Aspect Oriented Programming)][2]

In computing, aspect-oriented programming (aop) is a programming paradigm that aims to increase modularity by allowing the separation of cross-cutting concerns. 

AOP includes programming methods and tools that support the modularization of concerns at the level of the source code, while "aspect-oriented software development" refers to a whole engineering discipline.

Aspect-oriented programming entails breaking down program logic into distinct parts (so-called concerns, cohesive areas of functionality). Nearly all programming paradigms support some level of grouping and encapsulation of concerns into separate, independent entities by providing abstractions (e.g., procedures, modules, classes, methods) that can be used for implementing, abstracting and composing these concerns. But some concerns defy these forms of implementation and are called crosscutting concerns because they "cut across" multiple abstractions in a program.

[2]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aspect_oriented_programming

---

## [Decorator pattern](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Decorator_pattern)

In object-oriented programming, the decorator pattern (also known as Wrapper, an alternative naming shared with the Adapter pattern) is a design pattern that allows behavior to be added to an individual object, either statically or dynamically, without affecting the behavior of other objects from the same class.

The decorator pattern can be used to extend (decorate) the functionality of a certain object statically, or in some cases at run-time, independently of other instances of the same class, provided some groundwork is done at design time. This is achieved by designing a new decorator class that wraps the original class. 

---

## [Monkey patch](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Monkey_patch)

A monkey patch is a way to extend or modify the run-time code of dynamic languages without altering the original source code. 

---

## [blob(Binary large object)][3]

A blob (alternately known as a binary large object, basic large object, BLOB, or BLOb) is a collection of binary data stored as a single entity in a database management system. Blobs are typically images, audio or other multimedia objects, though sometimes binary executable code is stored as a blob. Database support for blobs is not universal.

[3]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Binary_large_object

---

## [CAP theorem](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CAP_theorem)

In theoretical computer science, the CAP theorem, also known as Brewer's theorem, states that it is impossible for a distributed computer system to simultaneously provide all three of the following guarantees:

* Consistency (all nodes see the same data at the same time)
* Availability (a guarantee that every request receives a response about whether it was successful or failed)
* Partition tolerance (the system continues to operate despite arbitrary message loss or failure of part of the system)